# Threat/Reward Conflict Apparatus

Escape behaviors in mice offer a robust behavioral system in which to study the neuronal computation of decisions related to acquiring rewards while maintaining estimates of potential threats.  Escape behaviors can be subdivided into four phases: 1) Threat Detection, 2) Excape Initiation, 3) Escape  execution and 4) Escape termination (Evans et al., 2019).  Each of these components is underlied by distinct activity patterns of overlapping but distinct populations of neurons.  

It has been hypothesized that the Periaqueductal Grey contains neurons which compute threat probability in an all-or-nothing fasion thanks to inputs from the medial superior colliculus, which is thought to constitute the fferent branch of a visually guided reflex arc.  That said, the computation of threat probability by PAG neurons is likely amenable to top down regulation, as escape behaviors can be suppressed in animals with prior exposure to innately aversive visual stimuli such as a looming disk (Lenzi et al., 2022).  The activity of direct spiny projection neurons (dSPN's) in the tail of the striatum (TS) have recently been shown to be directly proportional to the probability of escape behaviors (Menegas et al., 2018 and Tsutsui-Kimura et al., 2022).  Conversely, the activity of indirect spiny projection neurons (iSPN's) in the same reigon have been shown to be indirectly proportional to the probability of escape behaviors, supposedly acting to suppress escape behaviors.  This striatal region might therefore serve as an source of signals encoding top-down suppression of escape.

The expression of escape behavior is largely dependent on the identity of he threatening stimulus.  Additionally, sound plays a key role in predator avoidance behaviors and the extent to which auditory and stimuli are related in the formation of threat predictions has largely gone unexplored.  The need has arisen for a flexible threat/reward conflict apparatus in which the basic structure of the task can be maintained while the identity of the visual and auditory threats can be easily switched.

This project is inspired by the work of Iku Kimura and Brett Graham in the creation of the monster task, which uses infrared sensors and servos interfaced via a microcontroller to control the presentation of rewards and threats resembling a potential predator to a foraging mouse.  


